version 0.11.0 (#68)
ObolNetwork/obol-docs: versioned_docs/version-v0.11.0/int/quickstart/group/quickstart-group-cli.md

## Pre-requisites

- Ensure you have [docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) and [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) installed. Also, make sure `docker` is running before executing the commands below.
- Decide who the leader of your cluster will be. Only leaders have to perform [step 2](#step-2-leader-creates-the-dkg-configuration-file-and-distributes-it-to-everyone-else) and [step 5](#step-5-activate-the-deposit-data) in the quickstart process. They do not get any special privilege.

## Step 1. Creating and backing up a private key for charon

The first step of running a cluster is preparing for a distributed key generation ceremony. To do this everyone must create an [ENR](../../faq/errors.mdx#what-is-an-enr) for their charon client. This ENR is a public/private key pair, and allows the other charon clients in the DKG to identify and connect to your node.

```sh
# Clone this repo
git clone https://github.com/ObolNetwork/charon-distributed-validator-node.git

# Change directory
cd charon-distributed-validator-node

# Create your charon ENR private key, this will create a charon-enr-private-key file in the .charon directory

> docker run --rm -v "$(pwd):/opt/charon" obolnetwork/charon:v0.10.0 create enr

Reviewer: i'm not sure why this didn't get automatically updated?

If you are taking part in an organised Obol testnet, submit the created ENR public address (the console output starting with `enr:-...` not the contents of the private key file) to the appropriate typeform.

## Step 2. Leader creates the DKG configuration file and distributes it to cluster operators

The leader will prepare the `cluster-definition.json` file for the Distributed Key Generation ceremony using the `charon create dkg` command.

In future, step 1 and step 2 of this guide will use the [Obol Distributed Validator Launchpad](https://docs.obol.tech/docs/dvk/distributed_validator_launchpad) to facilitate and verify these files are created in an authenticated manner.

```
# Prepare an environment variable file
cp .env.create_dkg.sample .env.create_dkg

# Populate the .env.create_dkg file with the cluster name, the fee recipient and withdrawal Ethereum addresses and the 
# operator ENRs of all the operators participating in the DKG ceremony.

# Run the `charon create dkg` command that generates DKG cluster-definition.json file.

> docker run --rm -v "$(pwd):/opt/charon" --env-file .env.create_dkg obolnetwork/charon:v0.10.0 create dkg

Reviewer: bump this

```

> This command should output a file at `.charon/cluster-definition.json`. This file needs to be shared with the other operators in a cluster.

Reviewer: @OisinKyne should we switch this step from `charon create dkg` to the `dv-launchpad` entirely this time?

## Step 3. Run the DKG

After receiving the `cluster-definition.json` file created by the leader, cluster members should ideally save it in the `.charon/` folder that was created during step 1, alternatively the `--definition-file` flag can override the default expected location for this file.

Every cluster member then participates in the DKG ceremony. For Charon v1, this needs to happen synchronously between participants at an agreed time.

```
# Participate in DKG ceremony, this will create .charon/cluster-lock.json, .charon/deposit-data.json and .charon/validator_keys

> docker run --rm -v "$(pwd):/opt/charon" obolnetwork/charon:v0.10.0 dkg --p2p-bootnode-relay

Reviewer: bump this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
docker run --rm -v "$(pwd):/opt/charon" obolnetwork/charon:v0.11.0 dkg
```

```

>This is a helpful [video walkthrough](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=94Pkovp5zoQ&ab_channel=ObolNetwork).

Assuming the DKG is successful, a number of artefacts will be created in the `.charon` folder. These include:

- A `deposit-data.json` file. This contains the information needed to activate the validator on the Ethereum network.
- A `cluster-lock.json` file. This contains the information needed by charon to operate the distributed validator cluster with its peers.
- A `validator_keys/` folder. This folder contains the private key shares and passwords for the created distributed validators.

At this point you should make a backup of the `.charon/validator_keys` folder as replacing lost private keys is not straightforward at this point in charon's development. The `cluster-lock` and `deposit-data` files are identical for each operator and can be copied if lost.

If taking part in an official Obol testnet, one cluster member will have to submit the `cluster-lock` and `deposit-data` files to the Obol Team.

## Step 4. Start the Distributed Validator Cluster

> With the DKG ceremony over, the last phase before activation is to prepare your node for validating over the long term. This repo is configured to sync an execution layer client (`geth`) and a consensus layer client (`lighthouse`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the DKG ceremony over, the last phase before activation is to prepare your node for validating over the long term. This repo is configured to sync an execution layer client (`nethermind`) and a consensus layer client (`nimbus`).
```

:::info
A threshold of peers in the cluster need to perform this task to exit a validator.
:::

- Create a new `exit_keys` folder next to `.charon/validator_keys`: `mkdir .charon/exit_keys`
- Copy the validator keys and passwords that you want to exit from the `validator_keys` folder to the `exit_keys` folder.
  - E.g. to exit validator #4: `cp .charon/validator_keys/keystore/keystore-4* .charon/exit_keys/`
  - Warning: all keys copied to the `exit_keys` folder will be exited, so be careful!
- Ensure the external network in `compose-volutary-exit.yml` is correct.
  - Confirm the name of the exiting `charon-distributed-validator-node` docker network: `docker network ls`.
  - If it isn't `charon-distributed-validator-node-dvnode`, then update `compose-volutary-exit.yml` accordingly.
- Ensure the latest fork version epoch is used:
  - Voluntary exists require an epoch after which they take effect.
  - All VCs need to sign and submit the exact same messages (epoch) in DVT.
  - `--epoch=1` would be ideal, since all chains have that epoch in the past, so the validator should exit immediately.

>   - There is however a [bug](https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse/issues/3471) in lighthouse requiring an epoch that maps to the latest fork version to be used.

Reviewer: suggest deleting this line as it isn't a bug actually
